# Intro Slides

Tuesday Jan 12, 2001
 
## Overview 

 * Good vs. bad design
 * Interaction Design
 * Interaction design process
 * Goals of interaction design
 * design and usability practice

## Objectives

 * Interaction design: 
    * "To design products that people use everyday".
    * The design of spaces for human communication and interaction - winograd
 * Goal is to develop usable products.
    * provide a enjoyable experience
    * easy to learn
    * effective to use
 * Involve users in the design process

## Bad / Good Design
 
 * Elevator buttons, pushing label instead of button
 * Monitor buttons hidden / hard to find due to bad led placement
 * Parking ticket dispencers
 * bad designs will often contravene well known conventions

## What to design

 * Need to know
   * _who_ the users are
   * _what_ the activites are
   * _where_ the interaction is
 * Understanding users needs
   * understand users skills and handicaps
   * consider what might help people with the way they do things.
   * listen to users wants

## History / Evolution

 * 90s : networked systems, groupware
 * 80s : Windows 3.0, GUIs, mutltimedia
 * 70s : terminal level
 * 60s : interface at the programming level (cards, fortran, cobol)
 * 50s : hardware level, switch panels
 * future? : 
   * gesture based computing
      * awkwardness of using extra hardware might be overcome
      * could cause fatigue
   * transparent screens
   * Minority Report...
   * Neural Interface (Think and it moves...)
   * eye tracking

## HCI -> ID
 
 * HCI: Definition on slides from ACM SIGCHI, 1992

## Usability Goals

 * Effective
 * Efficient
 * Safe
 * have good utility (allows you to do something that lets you do your task better)
 * easy to learn
 * easy to remember how to use

## User Experience Goals

 * on ppt

## Usability vs User Experience

 * not the same
 * there are trade-offs
 * usability is usually more measureable than UX. 

## Design Principles
 
 * generalizable abstractions for thinking about different aspects of design
 * the does and don'ts of interaction design

## Visibility

 * how does it work?
 * what is user supposed to do (essecntial detail).
 * if an error ocured what should the user do?
 * task-completion: Force user to do minor actions before completeing task (ATM, card before money...). They will leave if they have completed the task, even if they've ignored minor steps.
 * make relevant parts visible

## Feedback

 * Give useful feedback.


