# Continutation of Ch 1 Notes
1-14-10

## Constraints

 * restiricting actions
 * helps prevent selecting incorrect options
 * three main types (Norman, 1999)
   * physical
   * cultural
   * logical

## Mapping

 * Slide has a diagram of music control buttons.
   * They are in a strange layout
 * Follow more common layouts. If you reinvent the wheel you may confuse users.
 * Toggle Buttons: ... button with two states.
 * Intuitive interpretations:
    * Burner arrangement is spacially arranged the same as the controls.
 
## Internal and external consistency 

 * Internal: Keep design consistency threwout the entire device/product 
 * External: Keep design consistency across many products/companys/applications

## Affordances

 * Refers to an attribute of an object that allows people to know how to use it.
 * Since has been much popularised in interaction design to discuss how to design interface objects
    * e.g. scrollbars to afford moving up and down, icons to afford clicking on 
 * Even if you are afforded an option, things can be confusing if you aren't used to that type of interface.

## Usability Principles

 * Visibility of system status
 * Match between system and the real world
 * User control and freedom
 * Consistency and standards
 * Help users recognize, diagnose and recover from errors
 * Error prevention
 * Recognition rather than recall
 * Flexibility and efficiency of use
 * Aesthetic and minimalist design
 * Help and documentation

## Key Points

 * Need to strive for usability and user experience goals
 * ID involves taking into account a number of interdependent factors including context of use, type of task and kind of user
 * Design and usability principles are useful heuristics for analyzing and evaluating interactive products

# Chapter 2

## Understanding the problem space

 * What do you want to create?
 * What are your assumptions?
 * Will it achieve what you hope it will?

## Conceptual model

 * How will the system appear to users?
 * High level description of ideas, behavior, etc.
 * Goal is to create a system that is analgous to everyday life.

### Mis-Conceptual Model

 * The mouse 
 * This does not necessarily mean that those people are stupid!
 * Conceptual models should be largely independent of the actual technology used in the implementation of the system.

