# Chapter 3

 * Cognition
 * Physical World
 * Conceptual Frameworks for cognition
    - Mental models
    - information processing
    - external cognition

## Why understand users

 * Interacting with technology is cognitive.
 * We have it easy since we are designing for an environment we work in, even
though we aren't the customer.
 * Make sure to understand the nature and cause for problems current users have.
 * What goes on with the user
   * perceiving, thinking, learning
   * understanding, talking, manipulating
   * planning, imagining, writing, painting, composing
   * making decisions, solving problems

## Core Cognitive Aspects

 * Attention
 * Perception and recognition
 * Memory

### Attention
 
 * Selecting things to concentrate on
 * Figure out what the most important(predominant) sense for a task.
 * Divided attention
   * limit our ability to keep track of our abilities.
   * Our generation is apparently better at multi-tasking
 * Design implications for attention
   * make information salient
   * make info stand out, but don't clutter the page or annoy your user. If they
have seizures, you're doing it wrong.
   * Look at Sam Li and Andy Huynh's SimpleDraw iPhone app
   * Youtube channel, make sure your users can read your text.

### Perception and Recognition

 * Information Acquisition
 * Tends to be grouped with experience
 * TEXT SHOULD BE LEGIBLE
 * icons should be easy to distinguish and understand

### Memory 

 * Look through the rest of the slides...

